source/index.md, before:

---
title: The Apollo and Meteor docs framework
sidebar_title: Introduction
description: Truly meta, this is the docs for the docs.
---

There are over a dozen documentation sites across Apollo and Meteor that use the same setup. It's been built up over the last 3 years or so based on learning of what works and what doesn't for documentation pages. We're constantly working on improving it, because our documentation is one of our greatest assets. Developer tools and libraries live and die by the quality of their documentation.

Inside this framework are buried years of sweat and tears, and tons of learnings about what works and what doesn't. This documentation site is an attempt to explain those.

The theme lives on GitHub at [meteor/hexo-theme-meteor](https://github.com/meteor/hexo-theme-meteor).

<h2 id="why">Why a custom framework?</h2>

One of the first questions you might ask is, why do we bother maintaining our own documentation setup and theme when there are off-the-shelf options available like GitHub READMEs, [GitBook](https://www.gitbook.com/), [ReadTheDocs](https://readthedocs.org/), or [Readme.io](http://readme.io/).

The answer is that we tried them, and these are great options when you want to get something up and running quickly, but aren't really designed for the needs of huge open source projects such as Apollo and Meteor. Emphasis on huge - I'd guess we're probably maintaining on the order of 100-200 pages of docs right now.

<h2 id="running">Running a docs site</h2>

1. Find the directory with a `_config.yml`
2. Run `npm install` to install npm dependencies
3. Run `npm start`, and click on the link in the terminal

<h2 id="features">Main features</h2>

This framework has several main features that are designed to hold and present a huge volume of content.

<h3 id="organization">4 levels of organization</h3>

If you look around the site, you'll find 4 different levels of hierarchy:

1. The top nav allows you to navigate to different docs sites
2. The sidebar has categories that organize different pages
3. Content is organized into pages
4. Each page has a table of contents composed of H2 and H3 headings

This was originally designed to solve a simple problem: How do we present a huge volume of information in the Meteor docs without becoming overwhelming? We reached a point where it felt like adding more documentation was making things hard to find, which was a bit scary because more documentation is almost always better.

<h3 id="toc">Table of contents</h3>

If you look on the left, you'll see that the current page you're on has a table of contents automatically generated from the H2 and H3 headings of the page. If you've ever read a huge markdown file on GitHub you know that this is critical to have.

<h3 id="social">Social integration</h3>

At the top of every article you'll find two buttons: GitHub and Slack. These are critical, and make a huge difference when encouraging people to contribute to documentation. We also have built in support for a variety of analytics platforms, search, Discourse, and more.

<h3 id="flexible">Arbitrary content</h3>

Platforms like the above, or GitHub READMEs, don't allow you to embed arbitrary stuff. Because we fully control the sites we deploy, we don't have to worry about it, enabling us to embed any kind of content we desire including videos, code sandboxes, and more.

<h2 id="quirks">Historical quirks</h2>

Sorry about these - there are some issues that we probably need to fix at some point but we haven't gotten around to. If you find a way, please do it!

<h3 id="config-refresh">Config changes require server restart</h3>

If you edit the `_config.yml` file, for example to add a new file to the sidebar, you'll need to kill your server and start it up again to pick up the change. If you edit page content or the theme you don't need to restart.

<h3 id="meteor-apollo-split">Meteor / Apollo theme split</h3>

For at least a year, Meteor and Apollo have used unmergeable branches of the theme:

- [Meteor on `master`](https://github.com/meteor/hexo-theme-meteor)
- [Apollo on `apollo`](https://github.com/meteor/hexo-theme-meteor/pull/42)

This was for a few reasons and more:

1. Need to configure logos/colors
2. Need to have a custom nav bar
3. Rushed visual improvements for a new website launch
4. Quick bug fixes for specific websites

If you can figure out how to merge these branches together you'll be a docs hero.

Commit message:

I am a docs hero. 🎖
The themes are no longer diverged.  Long live theme.

Ref: https://github.com/meteor/hexo-theme-meteor/pull/51

source/index.md, after:

---
title: The Apollo and Meteor docs framework
sidebar_title: Introduction
description: Truly meta, this is the docs for the docs.
---

There are over a dozen documentation sites across Apollo and Meteor that use the same setup. It's been built up over the last 3 years or so based on learning of what works and what doesn't for documentation pages. We're constantly working on improving it, because our documentation is one of our greatest assets. Developer tools and libraries live and die by the quality of their documentation.

Inside this framework are buried years of sweat and tears, and tons of learnings about what works and what doesn't. This documentation site is an attempt to explain those.

The theme lives on GitHub at [meteor/hexo-theme-meteor](https://github.com/meteor/hexo-theme-meteor).

<h2 id="why">Why a custom framework?</h2>

One of the first questions you might ask is, why do we bother maintaining our own documentation setup and theme when there are off-the-shelf options available like GitHub READMEs, [GitBook](https://www.gitbook.com/), [ReadTheDocs](https://readthedocs.org/), or [Readme.io](http://readme.io/).

The answer is that we tried them, and these are great options when you want to get something up and running quickly, but aren't really designed for the needs of huge open source projects such as Apollo and Meteor. Emphasis on huge - I'd guess we're probably maintaining on the order of 100-200 pages of docs right now.

<h2 id="running">Running a docs site</h2>

1. Find the directory with a `_config.yml`
2. Run `npm install` to install npm dependencies
3. Run `npm start`, and click on the link in the terminal

<h2 id="features">Main features</h2>

This framework has several main features that are designed to hold and present a huge volume of content.

<h3 id="organization">4 levels of organization</h3>

If you look around the site, you'll find 4 different levels of hierarchy:

1. The top nav allows you to navigate to different docs sites
2. The sidebar has categories that organize different pages
3. Content is organized into pages
4. Each page has a table of contents composed of H2 and H3 headings

This was originally designed to solve a simple problem: How do we present a huge volume of information in the Meteor docs without becoming overwhelming? We reached a point where it felt like adding more documentation was making things hard to find, which was a bit scary because more documentation is almost always better.

<h3 id="toc">Table of contents</h3>

If you look on the left, you'll see that the current page you're on has a table of contents automatically generated from the H2 and H3 headings of the page. If you've ever read a huge markdown file on GitHub you know that this is critical to have.

<h3 id="social">Social integration</h3>

At the top of every article you'll find two buttons: GitHub and Slack. These are critical, and make a huge difference when encouraging people to contribute to documentation. We also have built in support for a variety of analytics platforms, search, Discourse, and more.

<h3 id="flexible">Arbitrary content</h3>

Platforms like the above, or GitHub READMEs, don't allow you to embed arbitrary stuff. Because we fully control the sites we deploy, we don't have to worry about it, enabling us to embed any kind of content we desire including videos, code sandboxes, and more.

<h2 id="quirks">Historical quirks</h2>

Sorry about these - there are some issues that we probably need to fix at some point but we haven't gotten around to. If you find a way, please do it!

<h3 id="config-refresh">Config changes require server restart</h3>

If you edit the `_config.yml` file, for example to add a new file to the sidebar, you'll need to kill your server and start it up again to pick up the change. If you edit page content or the theme you don't need to restart.

<h3 id="meteor-apollo-split">Theme management</h3>

The same theme, albeit with different CSS configurations, is used on multiple deployments.  As of this writing there are [two different CSS bundles](https://github.com/meteor/hexo-theme-meteor/search?utf8=%E2%9C%93&q=import+color+overrides+for+this+variation&type=) (Apollo and Meteor) and a full list of deployments demonstrating the themes can be found on the [theme repository](https://github.com/meteor/hexo-theme-meteor).

**When making changes to the theme, it's important to make sure the changes that are dynamic enough to work on each variation of the theme.**  The preview on the theme repository will provide links to each variation when opening a pull-request.
